If I were to design a curriculum for my high school self, honestly it would be just like being in undergrad or 
first semester graduate school. Let us pretend that this was an alternate universe where that time of my life wasn’t
fraught with tragedy and was in a better place emotionally and mentally.  
That did impact my learning experience quite a lot, not particularly for the better. That aside, my school was a 
behavioral modification school meant to work with children with all sorts of mental and physical disabilities, and illnesses. 
Given the varied cognitive effects of one disorder to another, I can only assume they only went with the baseline in regards to education. 
This left many people like myself, unchallenged and unenthused with learning in school. 

(I did learn, usually on my own pace with topics I enjoyed over the internet.)

I think high school could benefit being set up in a semi-collegiate setting. It would allow students to actually prepare mentally
for college through experience. This is also the prime time for development and critical thinking. 
Where people are maturing and wanting a taste of independence, trying to figure out who they are and what their place is in his world.
Fostering a place that encourages critical thinking and free expression earlier might make people more empathic and confident adults.
Very little will be changed by way of courses, however I believe the contents should be changed, and perhaps more flexible.  
Have classwork more build on a college syllabus model to allow those who may pick up concepts faster to carry on their own pace
without being dragged with the slowest student.  Have the ‘prerequisite’ classes as part of the first two years of High School;
mathematics, English/literature, health, home economics, world and local history, science, government and economics, a language, et cetera. 
The basic stuff we need to get through our everyday lives. But also bring in critical thinking and philosophy, perhaps even cover 
basic psychology and sociology.And then in the last two years of high school, a student may have more classes to choose that is more
tailored to their interests and focus. A more mathematically inclined student can take the advance mathematics classes they desire, 
while a more art inclined student could go with classes in the arts.

Making the teacher-student relationship more empathic and more equal personally would have helped, ideally it would be this equal team 
of the student, teacher, counselor/therapist, and parent, but I understand the situation varies from student to student with that regard. 
In its ideal form, the student would have a strong support group from the other three, all of which doing their own share in helping 
the student succeed. It also means that while each student has to follow the baseline, the teacher can change 
the challenge on a one on onebasis. 

With a balance of freedom, emotional support, flexibility, and understanding, I believe we can create a curriculum that would inspire
students to learn.

![Image 1] (https://68.media.tumblr.com/901e5ea16d53b04113329ce266a69a94/tumblr_okrgtpYa7t1vg4kuko2_1280.jpg)
![Image 2] (https://68.media.tumblr.com/4a4e34d307cc897ede47c90f48743ef1/tumblr_okrgtpYa7t1vg4kuko1_1280.jpg)
